Okay,
guys,
um,
welcome back.
Now,
in the last lecture on a raise that you're gonna come to a few lectures on now,
we're going to go through the absolute,
most efficient way to load data intern array on read data from in a way.
But just for backwards compatibility,
in case you ever come across any code that does it the old fashioned way,
we're going to go through that in the intervening lectures.
Okay,
So sub raise one is a simple,
one dimensional static array there.
Just to explain those two terms,
A dimension in an array is the number of elements that are held within it.
So you can have a single dimension array,
which would be this kind of array here,
where we essentially have one drawer with 1234567 boxes within it.
Now,
a static array is just that it is static.
You set it up,
you say what kind of valuable it's gonna hold on?
You say how big it's going to bay.
Where's the dynamic array?
You can actually change the size of the array.
That is how many elements are going to be within it at runtime so dynamic arrays much more
useful because unless your data is always the same size,
so days of the week would be a perfect use for a static array,
because there's only ever going to be seven.
But most of the time we're going to use dynamic a race.
Now.
The other important thing to remember about static arrays versus dynamic arrays is even if
you destroy or erases a static array,
its memory is still allocated in your computer.
So if you have a 1,000,000 things in your static array,
even if you were raised the array,
there is still memory being used.
Another reason that very few people ever use static a race.
It wears a dynamic array.
When you destroy it,
don't destroy a dynamic array.
The memory is released.
Okay,
so let's have a look at this quick demonstration.
I have set up an array dim my array.
A.
What I'm gonna do is add a watch to that.
We know have to do that so we'll be able to see exactly what's going on down here.
So I have dimmed my array A and you can see that I've put seven in brackets.
Now that is not the number of elements that it holds that is the upper bound.
That is the last number in the array.
Now,
you may look at that and think that's gonna hold seven things,
but you'll see that it doesn't when we actually start to load it.
So I am calling the Simple sheet,
which is this one and claiming the contents from D because that's where we're going to
write them,
too.
So it's just step through this and have a look.
So here we go.
Here,
we into the reading,
the array.
So what I'm gonna say is my array a my counter,
which is the loop we're going to go through.
And I've gone from 1 to 7 because of dim this as an upper bound of seven.
So my array A my cancer,
which is gonna be one on the first pass through this loop equals sells my cancer one on the
first pass through on Row one and column one.
So this will be 11 which is a one value.
So on the first pass through and you can see that we now have values in our array and you
can see that my array.
A one has value of red.
So I'm just gonna f eight through that a few times and you can see that it's loading up all
of those values.
And now here's a strange thing you remember appear that I said that this is the upper bound
and not the number of elements.
That's because whenever you set up an array,
it begins counting at zero.
Now,
there is something we can do at the very top of the code to stop that happening.
So it does begin counting that one,
which we're gonna have a look at in just a second.
So back to the code.
So I have successfully read through this loop all of the values in a one through a seven.
And now I'm just gonna do that in reverse.
And same cells,
my counter nomen fox.
I wanna write two column day.
So 14 1st row fourth column equals my array A on the first pass,
that's gonna be one,
And we could see down here that holds the value off red.
So there's red loop through now.
We're going to be having a look at yellow on so and so on and so on.
And so we have written missile and sub.
Now I said that this is the upper bound.
Now,
if we go went right to the tough of our code,
let's help Here we write option base one that will no force all of our a race to begin
counting that one.
So let's just go through that code one more time on this time.
Notice what happens when we load the array.
If I click in here,
you can see that the Dimension zero has been removed and we're actually beginning counting
at one.
So we now have regular pink,
green,
orange,
prayerful.
And now when we write it back,
there you go.
Everything works perfectly.
A logically as you would think it would be.
So it's a very good practice to always right option base one at the top,
and that will force your A raise to begin at one.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
But what happens if we have a new entry?
So what if we had another collapse down the bottom and we executed this code where we
conceive,
we load my array that it's gone regular pink,
green,
purple,
blue,
but it stopped reading there because we have hard coded this seven as an upper bound.
And that's the drawback with static arrays,
it does not account for how dynamic your data could be.
So in the next lecture,
we're gonna have a look a simple,
one dimensional array again.
But this time we're going to make it dynamic,
so I'll see you in the next lecture.